---
layout: post
title: A New Chapter
subtitle:
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/new-chapter-text-written-typewriter.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags:
  - test
---
As long as they keep paying me I'll keep showing up. I must have said that 100 times. After all, it was a good job and it paid well. I generally liked the people I worked with and I had established myself as a valuable internal resource. Most of the time I liked it pretty well so there was no reason for me to look somewhere else. It was a sales engineering role so I had freedom to learn and study new technologies. I had very little oversight as I was considered a "top performer". I got the best assignments, the best customers, and the best sales people to support. I came and went as I pleased, often taking time away for a round of golf or a long lunch with friends. It really was a dream job and my compensation was typically far above my peers. They kept paying me and I kept showing up.

That isn't to say that things didn't change. It seemed I had a new boss about every other year. Some were better than others. What I didn't expect, however, was that I would end up replacing a particularly bad boss. I was now the boss, managing people who had been my peers just a few months earlier. Being a people manager was new to me but I had one thing going for me. I could do the job of any of my people. I understood the business and could helpfully guide those that needed it. I dove headfirst into the role and in doing so, lost all of those things that I loved about my job. Gone were the flexible hours, the external relationships with customers and partners, and the deep dive technical review meetings that I loved so much. Instead my days were filled with funnel and forecast reviews, performance reviews, candidate interviews, and meetings. Lots and lots of meetings. My mental health suffered and I started to wonder how I could move on.

I had always planned to keep working until my full retirement age of sixty-seven, or at least until  the age of sixty-five. Then I'd have ample access to health insurance and hopefully enough money to last the rest of my time. It was only a few more years as the last decade had slipped by in an instant. I just needed to hold on and I could retire. I was talking with one of my people, Charlie. He was only a year older than me and he said he was considering retirement. We talked about the financial aspects of retirement and what he might do afterward. Charlie was a drummer and only worked to make ends meet. He wanted to play drums and travel to shows. He was a good engineer and I didn't really want him to leave but was happy for him. 

Over the next month or two, Charlie told me that he had sold his house and that they were going to rent for a bit. He said he had been talking to a financial planner and that he was set. If he lived to 99 years old he'd still have almost two million dollars in the bank and that he could retire whenever he wanted. So he wasn't waiting until the end of the year, he was retiring at the end of the month. My reaction was just wow. Good for him. I was genuinely happy for him but was wondering how I would fill the workload he was handling. So Charlie retired and I wondered if I would ever get there.

A few months later, a Monday morning, I got a phone call from my other guy that worked along side Charlie. Charlie had taken ill and was admitted to the hospital on Friday afternoon. They weren't sure what it was but it had happened suddenly and progressed fast. Charlie had died over the weekend, his wife by his side. The news was devastating to me. Even thinking about it now brings tears to my eyes. He had done it right and retired on his own terms only to have it taken away in an instant. I was shaken even though I'd seen similar things play out over my career. The peer who died at his desk, the guy whose wife was diagnosed with a fatal brain tumor as soon as they both retired, and the woman whose son ended up in a wheelchair after a bad accident. But none of those hit me like Charlie. He was my age, similar lives, similar interests. He was like me. He could be me. I didn't want my own journey to end the same way.

So I made my exit plan. A full financial assessment made me realize that I was closer to financial independence than I originally had thought. Over the next year I quietly planned my retirement. I wasn't sure I could do it so I didn't tell anyone. Then as corporate life tends to do, my leadership made some decisions that impacted my team (i.e. they laid people off) without even telling me. Just a "have someone else on your team pick up their work, it will be fine." That's when I told my boss I've had it, I'm leaving. Let someone else pickup the pieces.

So on January 2nd of the next year I retired. I worked my last day for someone else. It's been two and half years since then and I've not regretted that decision for a single moment. When others find out you're retiring they all ask the same question. What are you going to do with all of that free time? As with any new chapter in life, you don't really know. So you throw out the standard lines about traveling a lot or taking on new hobbies. The truth is much better than that though. It takes some adjustment to build new routines and rediscover those things you truly enjoy. That is the greatest part about having the freedom to leave work for pay behind. It's about the journey and about writing the next chapter of life. A new chapter filled with all the unknowns and surprises that life has to offer.
