---
layout: post
title: A Musical Journey
subtitle:
cover-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/stratocaster.png
share-img: /assets/img/path.jpg
tags:
  - music

I've always loved music. My first memories of that recognition came when I was probably six or seven years old. My parents didn't listen to a lot of music so there wasn't much around the house. There was, however, a couple of old albums in the drawer of a coffee table in the living room along with a console stereo system. Once I demonstrated that I could work it correctly (i.e. without breaking it or taking it apart), I was allowed to listen to some of those albums. There was really only one that I liked though - "Whipped Cream and Other Delights" by Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass. Not just liked it, I loved it. I would sit in front of the console stereo and play side one over and over, bopping my head back and forth while marveling over the stereo sound emanating from the speakers. Even listening to those songs now brings back such fond memories. I felt like I had discovered something remarkable and that feeling has always persisted in my life.

I got my first guitar around the age of ten or eleven. It was a kids guitar, built smaller to fit a kids body. It was a red toned wood veneer and the strings sat high off the frets so it took some effort for my little fingers to get a clear note. It came from the small music store next to Duckwall's Drug Store in the little mall just down the street. My mother signed me up for guitar lessons there. The lessons were in a tiny little room, barely a broom closet, with two folding chairs. One for me and one for the instructor who was just a young guy trying to make a few dollars though at the time I was intimidated to be in such a small space with a stranger. I had my Hal Leonard beginners guitar book that had simple little songs on one string. There was no such thing as guitar tab, that shows where to fret the strings, back then. So I had to follow the notes using standard music notation. The guitar hurt my tiny fingers and plucking the same three notes really didn't seem worth it. I wanted to make music like I heard on the radio. Something that had a beat and a melody. After about three lessons, the instructor told me that I wasn't going to get anywhere playing that little kids guitar. What I needed was an electric guitar and he had just the thing. He led me back out to the front of the store and opened a guitar case with a shiny blue electric guitar. I was mesmerized by how shiny it looked. I was convinced that this was what I needed to jump start my musical career.

So when I got home, I excitedly told my mother how the instructor said I needed a real instrument and how I needed the fancy electric guitar to actually produce real music. The next week I brought her into the store to show her the fine instrument that would allow me to make good music. The salesman showed her the guitar and the amplifier needed to make it work. When she inquired as to how much it would all cost, it came up to almost $200, a literal fortune at that time. That was the end of the discussion. I would need to show that I could actually make progress with the toy guitar before there would be any consideration of spending that kind of money. I kept trying to play it, but my enthusiasm for the toy guitar was gone. I stopped the lessons and quit the guitar having barely even started to learn. In retrospect, she was probably right to not allow the nice electric guitar as I often had started something only to quickly get bored and move on. Nonetheless, something better than the toy guitar was probably justified.

Though my dreams of playing guitar in front of thousands had ended, that didn't stop me from continuing to listen to any music I could find. I listened constantly to the small AM clock radio that was tuned to the local pop music station. I had a small cassette tape recorder and a microphone that I would hold up to the small speaker of the radio waiting to hear one of my favorite songs so that I could record it to a blank cassette. It seemed that I always either missed the beginning or the DJ would talk over the start of the song, ruining my efforts to capture the music. My sister had a record player and a stack of 45s that I would play when she was away. "Seasons in the Sun" by Terry Jacks, "I'd Love You to Want Me" by Lobo, and "Spiders and Snakes" by Jim Stafford were some of my favorites. I also liked playing the backside of the record as the might be hidden gem to discover. I'd sing along with them all and knew all of the words by heart.

When I was fifteen, my parents got me an actual stereo system for Christmas. It had AM/FM radio, a turntable, and an 8-track player that would record too. It was one of the best gifts ever and I had that system all through high school and college.  I loved browsing through the stacks of albums at the local record shop looking for something that looked good. Many times I would buy records based solely on the band and the album art as there was no easy way to hear all the songs without purchasing the record. I discovered all of the great bands this way. Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, Aerosmith, Boston, Foreigner, and all of the other acts that were popular back then. I had a big poster of Kiss that came out of one of their albums hung on the wall. While many of the records have disappeared over the years, I still have most of them. I was thrilled to see the resurgence of vinyl in recent years as it gave me reason to set up a new turntable and play all of my old classics. They still sound great and I've even added some new material to my collection. I still love browsing the stacks of records. It just isn't the same looking at CDs or cassettes.

I also loved going to live shows with my friends to soak in the atmosphere. Big concerts such as Van Halen, Fleetwood Mac, Journey or Rush were all must see shows but we also saw some good acts at the local bars and clubs. Unfortunately, our school wasn't on the list for the biggest tours so we missed a lot but I have fond memories of the shows we did see.

I finally got my second guitar almost forty years after my first one. I had been to Las Vegas to see Santana play with his band and actually ended up winning some money. When I got home it was burning a hole in my pocket but there really wasn't anything I needed or wanted. But then I thought to myself "why
not?" and purchased a beginners electric guitar and amplifier. I tried to play it for a few weeks then decided I wasn't going to do the same thing and quit because my equipment wasn't any good. So I splurged and bought a nice Fender Stratocaster and a fancy Fender amplifier. To no one's surprise, I still couldn't really play it by drawing on my brief experience as a ten year old guitar player. So I signed up for some lessons with a local instructor and asked him to just give me a crash course in electric guitar and not to hold anything back. He taught me a lot of things I had never really thought about such as bending strings and the pentatonic scales. I still wasn't very good but I at least knew what I needed to do to get better. The priorities of life, however, took over and my practice schedule waned. 

Now that my time is my own again (i.e. retired) I am happy to have established a regular practice routine and am making progress toward actually learning to play the electric guitar. While I will never be a big time rock star, it is still very rewarding to practice and play just for myself. I know that no matter what happens in the future, my love of music will always be there. 
